Font Library: adding docs (#54477)
WordPress/gutenberg: lib/compat/wordpress-6.5/fonts/README.md

The only responsibility of a font collection is to present a list of font families in a correct format. Font collections are not in charge of installing the fonts; they just list a group of font families so users can choose the one they want to install. If the font family includes font faces, those font faces should have links to bundled (e.g: in a plugin assets) or external (e.g: from a CDN) font assets that will be downloaded or linked when the font family is installed.

#### Register a font collection
Register a font collection means providing a user a new list of fonts from one can select and install fonts. When a font collection is registered it is featured as a new tab in the font library modal and it's fetcheable using the `/font-collections/` REST API endpoint.

To register a font collection you need to use `wp_register_font_collection` function.

##### Register a font collection using PHP only

> Example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example:

```
Adds line break before code block.

                    'src'        => path_join( plugin_dir_path( __FILE__ ), "fonts/piazzolla400normal.woff2" )
                  )
                )
            )
        ),
        'categories' => [ 'system-ui' ],
    ),
    array(
        'font_family_settings' => (
            array (
                'fontFamily' => 'Arial, Helvetica, Tahoma, Geneva, sans-serif',
                'slug'       => 'arial',
                'name'       => 'Arial',
            )
        ),
        'categories' => [ 'sans-serif' ],
    ),
];

$categories = [
    array(
        'slug' => 'serif',
        'name' => 'Serif',
    ),
    array(
        'slug' => 'sans-serif',
        'name' => 'Sans Serif',
    ),
];

$config = array (
    'name'          => 'My sytem fonts collection',
    'description'   => 'Stacks of modern systems fonts, not font face assets needed. The look will vary on each system.',
    'font_families' => $font_families,
    'categories'    => $categories,
);

function register_my_collection(){
    wp_register_font_collection ( 'my-font-foundry', $config );
}

add_action( 'init', 'register_my_collection' );
```

##### Register a font collection using a JSON file

> Example using a local JSON file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example using a local JSON file:

```
Adds line break before code block.

```php
function register_my_collection(){

>     wp_register_font_collection ( 'my-font-foundry', path_join( __DIR__, 'my-collection.json' ) );

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    wp_register_font_collection (
        'my-font-foundry',
        array(
            'name'          => 'My Font Foundry',
            'font_families' => path_join( __DIR__, 'my-collection.json' )
        )
    );
```
This method changed in https://github.com/WordPress/wordpress-develop/commit/8ced706f7f87a8882d5960b23b669d8e5217d54c.

}

add_action( 'init', 'register_my_collection' );
```

> Example using a JSON from an URL:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example using a JSON from an URL:

```
Adds line break before code block.

```php
function register_my_collection(){

>     wp_register_font_collection ( 'my-font-foundry', 'https://example.com/fonts/my-collection.json' );

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    wp_register_font_collection (
        'my-font-foundry',
        array(
            'name'          => 'My Font Foundry',
            'font_families' => 'https://example.com/fonts/my-collection.json'
        )
    );
```
Same change as noted above in https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/pull/54477/files#r1500148930.

}

> add_action( 'init', 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
add_action( 'init', 'register_my_collection' );
```
Fix.

```

`my-collection.json` file example:

```json
{

>   "$schema": "https://schemas.wp.org/trunk/font-collection.json",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "$schema": "https://schemas.wp.org/trunk/font-collection.json",
  "slug": "my-font-foundry-collection",
```
Adds `slug`.

  "name": "My Font Foundry Collection",
  "decription": "The font offered by My Font Foundry",
  "categories": [

>     { "id": "sans-serif", "name": "Sans Serif" },
>     { "id": "serif", "name": "Serif" },

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {
      "name": "Sans Serif",
      "slug": "sans-serif",
    },
    {
      "name": "Serif",
      "slug": "serif"
    },
```
Reformat and switch `id` to `slug`.

          {
            "src": "https://fonts.gstatic.com/s/aboreto/v2/5DCXAKLhwDDQ4N8blKHeA2yuxSY.woff2",
            "fontWeight": "400",
            "fontStyle": "normal",
            "fontFamily": "Aboreto",
            "preview": "https://s.w.org/images/fonts/17.6/previews/aboreto/aboreto-400-normal.svg"
          }
        ],
        "preview": "https://s.w.org/images/fonts/17.6/previews/aboreto/aboreto.svg"
      },
      "categories": ["sans-serif"]
    },
    {
      "font_family_settings": {
        "name": "Abril Fatface",
        "fontFamily": "Abril Fatface, system-ui",
        "slug": "abril-fatface",
        "fontFace": [
          {
            "src": "https://fonts.gstatic.com/s/abrilfatface/v23/zOL64pLDlL1D99S8g8PtiKchm-VsjOLhZBY.woff2",
            "fontWeight": "400",
            "fontStyle": "normal",
            "fontFamily": "Abril Fatface",
            "preview": "https://s.w.org/images/fonts/17.6/previews/abril-fatface/abril-fatface-400-normal.svg"
          }
        ],
        "preview": "https://s.w.org/images/fonts/17.6/previews/abril-fatface/abril-fatface.svg"
      },
      "categories": ["serif"]
    },
  ]
}
```

#### Unregister a font collection

> To unregister a font collection you need to add an action calling `wp_unregister_font_collection` with the font collection slug as the only parameter. The unregistered font collections won't appear as a font library modal tab and it won't be listed on the `/font-collections/` REST API endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To unregister a font collection, add an action calling `wp_unregister_font_collection` with the font collection slug as the only parameter. Unregistered font collections won't appear in the Font Library modal tab list, and won't be returned from the `/font-collections/` REST API endpoint.
```
Massaging this a little.

> Example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example:

```

Added a line break above code block. To my eyes this is easier to scan in .md.

```php
function unregister_google_fonts(){
    wp_unregister_font_collection ( 'google-fonts' );
}
add_action( 'init', 'unregister_google_fonts' );
```

### Assets storage

**TODO:** add the `font_dir` docs.

## Rest API

### Different types of installations

The library allows extenders to define how WordPress installs fonts. When users install a font family, its definition will always be saved to the database. What can vary is where the font face file assets are stored.

Review the following different types of installations to find what works best for your use case:
#### Install a system font ( a font with no font file assets)
When you want to install a font family that doesn't need any font assets to work, these fonts are usually called system fonts. You can define these font families like this:

> ```json

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```json
```
Adds line break before code block.

{
    "name": "Humanist",
    "slug": "humanist",
    "fontFamily": "Seravek, 'Gill Sans Nova', Ubuntu, Calibri, 'DejaVu Sans', source-sans-pro, sans-serif",

}
```

#### Install a font with external assets
In a situation where you want to install a font family that needs to add font faces using external font file assets, you can define font families like this:

> ```json

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```json
```
Adds line break before code block.

        },
    ]
}
```

#### Install a font providing the font asset
In a situation where you want to install a font family using the font files you are providing in an HTTP request. These font file assets will be stored in your WordPress `/wp-content/fonts` folder and they will always be served from your site. This can be useful, for example, if you want to avoid depending on external sites for technical or legal reasons. You need to add the file to your HTTP request and add a reference for it in the font face definition.

```json
{
    "name": "Piazzolla",
    "slug": "piazzolla",
    "fontFamily": "Piazzolla, serif",
    "fontFace": [
        {
          "uploadedFile": "request-file-id",
          "fontWeight": "400",
          "fontStyle": "normal",
          "fontFamily": "Piazzolla"
        },
    ]
}
```

### API endpoints

#### Install font families
Install a font family is to save a font definition in WordPress and make it available to be activated and used by the user.

Save a font family may or may not include storing the font files assets localy to disk in `/wp-content/fonts` folder. That depends on how the font family sent to this endpoint is defined.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```console
```
Updates formatting.

POST /wp-json/wp/v2/fonts
```

Example:

#### Uninstall font families
Uninstalling a font family removes the font definition from WordPress and makes it unavailable for users to activate and save.

If the font family being uninstalled is using local font file assets, those files will be removed from the `/wp-content/fonts` folder.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```console
```
Updates formatting.

DELETE /wp-json/wp/v2/fonts
```

Example:

#### Get font collections
Gets the list of fonts collections available.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```console
```
Updates formatting.

GET /wp-json/wp/v2/fonts/collections
```

Example:

#### Get a font collection
Get a particular font collection and its data.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```console
```
Adds line break before code block, updates formatting.
